{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f670\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f671\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f673\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f674\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f675\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f676\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f677\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f678\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f680\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f681\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f683\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f684\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f685\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f686\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f687\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f688\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\f690\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f691\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f693\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f694\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f695\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f696\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f697\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f698\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f2\fs28\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 footer;}{\*\cs17 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2230710\rsid7743288\rsid12989215}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6568;}{\info{\title A: Statement of aims}
{\author machine20}{\operator Andrew Gunton}{\creatim\yr2005\mo11\dy3\hr22\min16}{\revtim\yr2005\mo11\dy3\hr22\min16}{\printim\yr2005\mo9\dy27\hr23\min57}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords2497}{\nofchars14233}{\*\company SWP}{\nofcharsws16697}
{\vern24579}}\margl1418\margr1418\margt1247\margb1247 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\aftnnar\lytprtmet\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow0
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl\oldas\nojkernpunct\rsidroot2230710 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid12989215 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid12989215 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid12989215 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid12989215 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj\saftnnar {\footer \pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 
{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs17\insrsid12989215 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs17\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid7743288 1}}}{\cs17\insrsid12989215 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri360\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin360\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid12989215 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\b\f0\fs28\insrsid12989215 SA(P) Officers final draft - Constitution of the Socialist Alliance [2005] 
\par }{\f0\fs24\insrsid12989215 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f2\fs28\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f0\fs24\insrsid12989215 A: Statement of aims
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f0\insrsid12989215 A1.  The name}{\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 of the organisation will be \'93
Socialist Alliance\'94.  
\par A2. The Socialist Alliance}{\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 promotes the ideas and principles of democracy and republicanism, an environmentally sustainable global socialism and working class internationalism. The Socialist Alliance}{
\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 stands on the basis of the Socialist Alliance 2001 programme \'93People Before Profit\'94  
\par A3.  The Socialist Alliance}{\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 aims to win support in the working class movement for a democratically organised republican socialist party, along the lines of the Scottish Socialist Party.  
\par A4.   Socialism  - The Socialist Alliance}{\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 is opposed to capitalism and imperialism. Socialism abolishes capitalism and economic ex
ploitation and hence the necessity for social oppression. Socialism re-organises society on the basis of common social ownership and democratic control. 
\par A5.   Republicanism - The Socialist Alliance}{\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 identifies the working class as the only genuinely democr
atic class in society. In the United Kingdom the constitutional monarchist state is the main barrier to democracy and socialism. The struggle for democracy is the only road to working class self-emancipation. Our immediate political objective is to replac
e the constitutional monarchy with a democratic secular republic which includes the right of Ireland, Scotland and Wales to self determination.   
\par A6.   Internationalism - The Socialist Alliance}{\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 is internationalist in its outlook. International capitalism i
s creating an expanding working class across the world. Building international working class solidarity and co-operation is central to the struggle for democracy and socialism. We oppose all capitalist policies which divide the working class along nationa
l lines including imperialist wars and foreign occupations.
\par A7.  Environment \endash   The Socialist Alliance recognises the importance of the local and global environment on the lives of the world\rquote s people, their health, safety and welfare. The greatest threat to
 the environment comes from the drive for corporate profits. The best defence of the social interest is in the democratic self organisation of the working class, full democratic rights, full freedom of information and scientific knowledge. Socialism will 
replace capitalism with social production organised on the basis of global social needs and world ecological sustainability. 
\par A8. The Socialist Alliance}{\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 is a campaigning organisation, seeking to win support for our ideas and policies in the socialist moveme
nt, the trade union movement and working class communities. We are prepared to work in and campaign within a broad range of socialist and working class organisations. We are prepared to stand in elections where circumstances indicate we have the support a
nd means to do so.  
\par A9.  The Socialist Alliance is not a party. We are not set up in opposition to other working class groups and parties. We are an alliance. This means we have }{\f0\insrsid12989215 independent members and members}{\f0\insrsid12989215 
 from a range of socialist parties and organisa
tions. We are not seeking to persuade members of other socialist organisations to leave their organisations. We expect comrades to act within their own organisations to promote our common aims and consider membership/affiliation to the SA. 
\par A10.  The Socialist Alliance}{\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 
is a democratic organisation. We believe in openness of ideas and freedom of expression and believe this is the best method of building an effective campaigning organisation for a new workers party.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f2\fs28\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f0\insrsid12989215 
\par B: Membership  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid12989215 [}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid12989215 All subsequent words in italics are taken from the existing SA (2001) constitution}{\i\f0\insrsid12989215 .}{\f0\insrsid12989215 ]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f0\insrsid12989215 
\par B1: Membership is open to all who broadly agree with the aims of the SA and accept its aims and programme as the basis for common activity.}{\b\cf1\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\cf1\insrsid12989215 Members are expected to support an anti-sectarian, co-op
erative and positive way of working and help to ensure that any critical debates are conducted in a positive manner and without personal attacks.
\par }{\f0\insrsid12989215 B2:  A member must pay the appropriate subscription to the Socialist Alliance. Local branches may seek additional donations from their own members as decided locally.
\par B3.  }{\i\f0\insrsid12989215 Members of other parties, organisations and groups who join the Socialist Alliance are expected to be able to keep their identity as members of these organisations whilst participating fully wit
hin the development of the Socialist Alliance.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\i\f0\insrsid12989215 
B4: Individual members are thus welcome from other groups and organisations and membership of these should be declared on application/renewal of membership of the Socialist Alliance.
\par 
\par }{\f0\insrsid12989215 B5}{\i\f0\insrsid12989215 : The annual fee for individual membership will be determined by the Annual Conference of the Socialist Alliance. }{\f0\insrsid12989215 
Where ever possible members will be allocated to the nearest local branch. Where this is not practical members will remain national members.}{\i\f0\insrsid12989215  Membership is on the bas
is of membership of only one local Socialist Alliance at any time. 
\par }{\f0\insrsid12989215 B6:  Socialist and working class organisations can support the Socialist Alliance by paying an affiliation fee. Affiliates are encouraged to publicise SA activities and consult and co-operate with the SA wherever possible.
\par B7: }{\i\f0\insrsid12989215  Membership of the Alliance carries an obligation not to obstruct campaigns decided on by the Alliance. We recognise, however, the right of minorities publicly to promote their views. In the event that an organised mi
nority intends to take any action conflicting with a majority decision nationally or locally, that minority should inform the Alliance at the relevant level of its intention to do so.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f2\fs28\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f0\insrsid12989215 C: National policy-making and structures
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\i\f0\insrsid12989215 C1: National policy will be decided democratically by an Annual Conference, open to all members. }{
\f0\insrsid12989215 A Conference Arrangements Committee will be elected to ensure the conference is organised and conducted democratically.   
\par }{\i\f0\insrsid12989215 C2: There will be political meetings and conferences of the Sociali
st Alliance in addition to the Annual Conference, open to all members to attend, at the discretion of the National Executive or on the basis of a request from 25 percent of the membership. Such conferences may alter the policy and constitution of the Soci
alist Alliance.
\par }{\b\f0\insrsid12989215 National Executive 
\par }{\f0\insrsid12989215 C3}{\i\f0\insrsid12989215 
: The implementation of national policy and national activities between Conferences, and the organisation of the Annual and any other Conferences, will be carried out by the National Executive, which will be elected at the Annual Conference.
\par }{\b\f0\insrsid12989215 The National Officers
\par }{\f0\insrsid12989215 C4}{\i\f0\insrsid12989215 : The National Officers will be accountable to the National Executive and the Annual Conference. }{\f0\insrsid12989215 
The National Officers will be Chair, Secretary, Treasurer, Nominations Officer, Membership Secretary and Communi
cations Office. These officers are responsible for overseeing and progressing the work of the alliance between executive meetings. The Officers will have an editorial function for approval and publication of leaflets and publications. [When it becomes pos
sible to produce a paper an editorial board should be elected and the constitution amended]. 
\par }{\b\f0\insrsid12989215 The Council of Socialist Organisations 
\par }{\f0\insrsid12989215 C5:  All affiliated socialist and working class organisations and affiliated local Socialist Alliances have the right to tw
o delegates to the Council of Socialist Organisations. The Council should meet regularly as it determines and no less than once every three months. The Council will comprise of no more than three National Officers meeting with delegates from affiliates. T
h
e SA officers, in consultation with affiliates, will draw up a provisional agenda and notice of the meeting. All affiliates have a right to place any matter on the agenda for discussion and the order of agenda will be decided by members of the council at 
the start of the meeting.
\par C6: The purpose of the Council is to assist in securing the maximum unity in action and closest co-operation between the SA and its affiliates. The Council seeks to encourage constructive dialogue and non-sectarian but critical exc
hange of views amongst affiliates themselves. 
\par C7: The Council can take majority decisions, but these are not binding either on affiliated organisations or on the Socialist Alliance. These decisions are to be reported back to delegating bodies as recommend
ations. These may then become the basis for joint action involving the SA and some or all of its affiliates.       
\par }{\b\f0\insrsid12989215 Election and powers of the National Executive 
\par }{\f0\insrsid12989215 C8}{\i\f0\insrsid12989215 : }{\f0\insrsid12989215 A 12 person}{\i\f0\insrsid12989215  National Executive will be elected at the Annual Conference. }{\f0\insrsid12989215 Comrades seeking
 nomination will include their political affiliation (see clause B4) with their nomination. No more than 25% [i.e. 3 members of the Executive may belong to any one socialist organisation. 
\par C9: Method of election to the National Executive.}{\b\f0\insrsid12989215  }{\f0\insrsid12989215 The National Exec
utive will comprise of 12 posts - Chair, Secretary, Treasurer, Membership Sec, Nominations Officer, Communications Officer, Access Co-ordinator, Trade Union Convenor, Four Convenors for RISE working groups.  These will be elected by individual election fo
r each post by means of exhaustive ballot. 
\par C10:}{\i\f0\insrsid12989215  The National Executive may co-opt additional members to the Executive by vote of two thirds majority of the Executive. }{\f0\insrsid12989215 
However an election should be held at the next national meeting and members invited to stand for election. 
\par C11}{\i\f0\insrsid12989215 
: The National Executive will meet bi-monthly. Individual non-executive members may attend such meetings by invitation of the National Executive. The National Executive will endeavour to decide issues wherever possible by agreement bu
t where no agreement is possible decisions will be made by majority vote.
\par C12: The National Executive  will be responsible for the running of the national organisation, for finance, membership, arrangements of national meetings, communications with local g
roups and individuals, national bulletin or paper production and distribution, liaison with other groups and organisations, arrangements for seeking and enabling electoral unity; and any other matters delegated to them by the Annual Conference.
\par C13: The Na
tional Executive will have the power to disaffiliate local Socialist Alliances and remove individual membership or refuse to ratify candidate selection if it is concluded that the basic statement of aims has been breached by a Socialist Alliance, by an in
dividual member or by a candidate.
\par C14: Decisions of the National Executive relating to affiliation of local organisations or ratification of candidates can be appealed to the Annual Conference. The Annual Conference has the final authority to decide all is
sues relating to the Socialist Alliance.
\par C15: The Socialist Alliance may be dissolved by a resolution of a Special Meeting, called for this purpose by the National Executive  or by request of 25 percent of the membership. Any assets of the Socialist Allian
ce shall be distributed to any organisation or organisations having aims consistent with those of the Socialist Alliance, as agreed at such a Special Meeting.
\par C16: The constitution of the Socialist Alliance may be changed by resolution of the Annual Confer
ence or by resolution of a Special Meeting open to all members called by the National Executive, or by request of 25 percent of the membership of the Socialist Alliance, provided such resolution receives a simple majority. 
\par }{\b\f0\insrsid12989215 Appeals Committee 
\par }{\i\f0\insrsid12989215 C17: Conferen
ce will elect an Appeals Committee with a membership of three, who must not be members of the executive. The committee shall elect a convenor from amongst its membership, who will have the right to attend the executive on a non-voting basis.
\par The functions of the committee shall be as follows:
\par i). Membership - Where a local alliance or national body wishes to reject an application for membership, or expel an existing member, the request must be made in writing to the appeals committee, who will have the final decision.
\par ii). Disputes - Any disputes about the balance of rights and duties between individual members or members platforms, or complaints about the conduct of individuals or members platforms shall be referred to the appeals committee. The decision of
 the committee will be binding on all parties concerned.
\par iii). Elections - Where disputes arise locally around endorsement of candidates, which seats are to be contested etc, the executive may ask the appeals committee to investigate the situation and make
 recommendations for a course of action. The final decision on these matters will remain with the executive.
\par The expectation is that all disputes should be resolved locally where possible, in line with the SA\rquote s principles of non-sectarian, positive coopera
tion. Disputes should only be referred to the appeals committee where local attempts to find a resolution have failed. All decisions of the appeals committee can be overturned at a conference by a simple majority vote.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f2\fs28\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f0\fs24\insrsid12989215 D: Local Socialist Alliances  
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\i\f0\insrsid12989215 D1: Lo
cal and regional organisation will have to be flexible to take account of the fact we are a small but growing organisation and the fact that effective campaigning and fighting different kinds of elections will require different organisational forms. These
 local and regional Alliances must however demonstrate that they comply with certain common criteria in order to be viable. 
\par (a) the Alliance has an organising group (or steering committee) with specific named responsibilities (including treasurer and membership secretary).
\par (b) the Alliance has a regular meeting, publicly advertised, open to all members (and potential new members).
\par (c) The Alliance maintains an up-to-date membership list and provides membership details to the national organisation as required.
\par D2: The boundaries of a Socialist Alliance should in the first instance be a matter for members to determine locally. If there is dispute over boundaries, this may be referred to the National Executive with the right of appeal to Conference. 
\par D3: Local Socialist Alliances should operate on similar principles to the National Executive, trying to reach agreement where they can but deciding issues by majority vote where they cannot.
\par D5: Recognition of local and regional Socialist Alliances as affiliates of the Socialist Alliance nationally will be determined by the National Executive, subject to review by the National Conference.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f2\fs28\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f0\fs24\insrsid12989215 E: Selection of candidates
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\i\f0\insrsid12989215 
E1: The local Socialist Alliance will have the responsibility for all elections contested by the Social
ist Alliance within its area  and for all arrangements regarding local candidate, agent, treasurer, in line with Socialist Alliance requirements nationally.
\par E2: Socialist Alliance candidates must be selected at properly notified meetings open to all Social
ist Alliance members of the appropriate local organisation on the basis of one member, one vote. If a Socialist Alliance does not exist in an area where someone wishes to stand as a Socialist Alliance candidate, a local Socialist Alliance can be establish
e
d by the National Executive to carry out a selection process. The national Nominating Officer should monitor the selection of candidates and report regularly to the National Executive. In case of dispute or objection to the selection of any Socialist Alli
ance candidate, confirmation of nomination must be sought from the National Executive
\par E3: The  local Socialist Alliance or  the National Executive, in consultation with one another, may nominate the Socialist Alliance candidate to stand in a particular elec
tion in exceptional circumstances. The final decision will lie with the Nominating Officer who is accountable to the National Executive.
\par E4: Socialist Alliance candidates will be expected to support the agreed policies of the Socialist Alliance and to promote the Socialist Alliance on public platforms.
\par E5: Should Socialist Alliance candidates be elected to office, they will be expected to support Socialist Alliance national policy.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f2\fs28\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f0\fs24\insrsid12989215 Charter of members\rquote  rights
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\i\f0\insrsid12989215 All members have the following rights:
\par 1. The right to take part in the selection of candidates for elections at all levels
\par 2. The right to put themselves forward as candidates for selection
\par 3. The right to take part in the formation of policy at all levels
\par 4. The right to hold all officers or representatives to account through democratic mechanisms
\par 5. The right to freedom of opinion and expression
\par 6. The right to write for, sell or distribute publications
\par 7. The right to information about all SA activities and decisions
\par 8. The right to establish short-term or long-term political platforms on whatever political basis members see fit.
\par The requirements of membership are:
\par 1. Support for Socialist Alliance candidates and campaigns in elections
\par 2. Behaving in a democratic and co-operative manner
\par 3. No racist, sexist, homophobic or discriminatory behaviour
\par 4. Payment of the relevant membership fee
\par 
\par }{\f0\insrsid12989215 
\par }}