{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch13\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f13\fnil\fcharset134\fprq2{\*\panose 02010600030101010101}SimSun{\*\falt \'cb\'ce\'cc\'e5};}{\f669\fnil\fcharset134\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@SimSun;}{\f670\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f671\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f673\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f674\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f675\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f676\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f677\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f678\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid671503\rsid3950772\rsid15495283}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6568;}{\info{\title 1}{\author User name placeholder}{\operator Andrew Gunton}{\creatim\yr2005\mo11\dy3\hr22\min15}{\revtim\yr2005\mo11\dy3\hr22\min15}
{\printim\yr2005\mo7\dy9\min39}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1266}{\nofchars7218}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws8468}{\vern24579}}\margl1418\margr1418\margt1134\margb1134 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1418\dgvorigin1134\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\nojkernpunct\rsidroot671503 \fet0
\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\b\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
Discussion paper - rebuilding a new Socialist Alliance 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 The following paper was agreed by the SA officers to be circulated as a discussion paper on the question of structure. The socialist movement is divided. One section is in the Labour Party. Outside L
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
abour the majority are in Respect and a minority are in a range of Non-Respect organisations. We are not in a position to unite the majority of socialists into the SA. However uniting the Non-Respect forces could be an important step forward. This should 
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 b\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 e our immediate objective.     
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 
\par }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
We should set the aim of launching a new Socialist Alliance in October/November with fifty to a hundred members and a range of affiliated socialist organisations. We will need to develop an organisational framework and henc\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
e constitution which can effectively unite these forces.
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 1.  SA branches  
\par 
\par }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 There are SA branches in Southampton, Coventry & Warwicks, Merseyside, Stockport and Swindon. In addition we have potential SA branches in Bedfordshire, London, Manchester, Exeter\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
 and Birmingham. In the case of Manchester, Birmingham and Exeter there are functioning organisations which will not necessarily want to become SA branches. We should do what we can to encourage and support these potential branches. We should ask branches
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 to officially support the pSA by making whatever donation they can afford. We should contact the branches officially and ask for the opportunity to attend a meeting and explain our plans.   
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 2.  Socialist Organisations 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 After the election we need to seek\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
 to unite the Non-Respect left and seek to persuade them back into the Socialist Alliance. We can identify the following organisations. [Note that this list is not fixed and positions of individuals and organisations can and will change.]    
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 
\par }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 The Non-Resp\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 ect left includes the following organisations \hich\f0 \endash \loch\f0 
 SP, AWL, AGS, SLP, CPB, RDG, CPGB, RParty, Sun, Workers Power, IWCA, ISL, TUSP, Socialist Forum, Red Pepper. [The CPGB spans both]. This group can be roughly divided into those working for co-operation and t\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 h
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
ose who are not. An approximation for this difference is between those involved in the Liaison Committee and those who are not. The Liaison Committee includes AWL, AGS, SP, RDG, CPGB, Sun, TUSP and RParty. This group are the ones more likely to support a 
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 n\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 ew SA.  
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 
\par }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 We can identify the following categories
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 Category A   }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
Organisations with leading comrades who have joined the SA(P) (CPGB, RDG, RParty, AGS, Walsall DLP, SUN, RCN(Scotland). More recently leading comrades from AWL and TUSP have joined. 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 Categor\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 y B    }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 Those organisations in the Liaison Committee but without members in the SA(P) \hich\f0 \endash \loch\f0 
 the Socialist Party 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 Category C    }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 Those organisations outside the Liaison Committee - Socialist Forum (Liverpool), IWCA, Red Pepper, ISL, Workers Power, CPB, SLP. We h
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 ave some contact with some of these organisations and their positions are either opposed or yet to be clarified. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 Category A are organisations most likely to be won to affiliation. Here we have support from leading comrades of these organisations and must\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
 have a chance of winning affiliation. But even here support is uneven. At present we do not have an agreed affiliation structure or agreed constitution. We are seeking to rebuild trust with these organisations through the involvement of some of their lea
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 d\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 ing comrades.    
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 A pro-party alliance not a party
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0    
\par }{\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 The strength of the new Socialist Alliance will not be immediately in terms of mass membership. If we have 100 members we will be doing well. More than that would exceed all expectations. However we c
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
an be a significant organisation if we can meaningfully represent and co-ordinate activity across a range of socialist organizations. This would provide the quickest route to establishing ourselves as a potentially significant organisation.  
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 Unlike the o\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
ld SA, our aim is a pro-party alliance which campaigns for a new party. In making this clear we are not presenting the SA as a permanent organisation, but as a step towards our aim of party. We can expect supporting organisations to support that aim.    

\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
We should not make the mistake of demanding that organisations with their own history and tradition to liquidate into an untried and untested alliance. A successful alliance, which grows and spreads it influence, can make increasing demands on affiliates 
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 a\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 s we move together to a new party. The recent success of Respect has now led the SWP to demand that all its comrades join Respect.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 It is however utopian for a new organisation without a record of successful intervention to demand that pre-existing groups \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
abandon their organisations. It is a sectarian demand. No serious working class political organisation with its own programme would liquidate into an alliance. The outcome of such demands is not greater \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 unity\'94\loch\f0 
 but driving a wedge between independents soc\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 i\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
alists and organised socialists. This can only add to the sum total of sectarian attitudes and produce yet more socialist groups. Our aim is not to increase the number of groups, but to seek to reduce them by building co-operation and preparing the ground
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 for a new workers party.   
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid3950772 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 A federal structure     
\par }{\insrsid3950772 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 A federal structure may not be appropriate for a party which requires a more democratic and centralised structure in order to be effective. However we are dealing with an alliance not a party. We belie
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
ve a federal structure can provide a step towards greater unity when seeking to unite a fragmented left which often acts in competition with each other. We do not propose federalism as a timeless universal principle of organisation \hich\f0 \endash 
\loch\f0  merely as a practical\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 means of achieving greater unity in certain circumstances.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 Federalism can take many forms. Not every form will be appropriate. We need a form of federalism which will help to generate the maximum unity in action as well as the greatest openness about poli\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
tical differences. 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0  
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
The central problem we have to address is the relationship between members [and membership organisation] and the affiliated socialist organisations. One way to secure the maximum unity is to treat them as autonomous parts of the Allia
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
nce. This means the membership organisation has its own structure of branches, elected executive and conference. The affiliated socialist organisations will have their own organisation within the Alliance [which could be called for example the Council of 
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 S\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 ocialist Organisations]
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
The Council will enable the affiliates to meet, exchange views and consider supporting various initiatives. The purpose of the Council would be to promote a dialogue between socialist organisations and facilitate joint activity and
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
 co-operation. Initiatives such as campaigns or joint actions could be proposed by affiliates and/or by the SA Executive. The SA Executive will send representatives to the Council with proposals from the SA, and take back to the Executive proposals from t
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 h\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 e Council.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
The Council cannot instruct the Executive nor can the Executive instruct the Council since both parts (membership and affiliates) are autonomous. However the aim will be to secure the maximum unity in action on a voluntary basis, by enabling al
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 l organisations to have a voice in the process. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 The actions taken by the SA will be decided by members in their branches, through their conference and elected leadership. This same principle applies to affiliates whose actions will be decided by their ow
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 n leaderships. Just as the SA will not be able to veto actions by affiliates, neither will affiliates be able to veto action by the SA membership. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 We can envisage different levels of united action \hich\f0 \endash \loch\f0  i) action supported by the SA and all affiliates, ii) a\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
ction supported by the SA and some affiliates iii) action by the SA without the support of affiliates and finally iv) action not supported by the SA in which one or more affiliates act in their  own name. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 Members of socialist organisations (which may or \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
may not be affiliates) will also be members of the SA membership organisation and may be elected to the Executive. We should include in the constitution a provision that members who are members of any one socialist organisation should have not more than [
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 2\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 0-30%] of seats on the Executive.  
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 It is not necessary to seek to include a member of any or every socialist organisation on the Executive, since every affiliated socialist organisation will have a guaranteed seat on the Council and hence a voice in infl
\hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 uencing the direction of the SA.   
\par }}