{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch13\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f13\fnil\fcharset134\fprq2{\*\panose 02010600030101010101}SimSun{\*\falt \'cb\'ce\'cc\'e5};}{\f37\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603060405020304}Times;}{\f38\fnil\fcharset134\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@SimSun;}
{\f39\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f40\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f42\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f43\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f45\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f46\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f47\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f409\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE;}{\f410\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr;}{\f412\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek;}{\f413\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur;}{\f414\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew);}
{\f415\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic);}{\f416\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic;}{\f417\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\f37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf1\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\f37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{
\s16\ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text Indent;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\f37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid16212174}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6568;}{\info{\title CONSTITUTION OF THE SOCIALIST ALLIANCE AS AGREED 12 NOV 2005}{\author Freeman}{\operator Andrew Gunton}
{\creatim\yr2005\mo11\dy26\hr10\min30}{\revtim\yr2005\mo11\dy26\hr10\min30}{\version2}{\edmins3}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2674}{\nofchars15246}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws17885}{\vern24579}}\paperw11904\paperh16836\margl851\margr851\margt902\margb873 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin851\dgvorigin902\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\nojkernpunct\rsidroot16212174 \fet0
{\*\docvar {MicrosoftWorksTaskID}{-16777215}}{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid16212174 
\chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid16212174 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid16212174 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid16212174 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex-32767\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\footer \pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxo\posy0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs18\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid16212174 
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 1}}}{\cs18\insrsid16212174 
\par }\pard \s17\ql \fi360\li0\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin360\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid16212174 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid16212174 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 CONSTITUTION OF THE SOCIALIST ALLIANCE AS AGREED 12 NOV 2005
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid16212174 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs22\insrsid16212174 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
A: Statement of aims
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid16212174 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A1.  The name}{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 \hich\f37 of the organisation will be \'93\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
Socialist Alliance\'94\loch\f37 .  
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A2. The Socialist Alliance}{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 promotes the ideas and principles of democracy and republicanism, an environmen
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 tally sustainable global socialism and working class internationalism. The Socialist Alliance}{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
stands on the basis of the Socialist Alliance 2001 programme \'93\loch\f37 \hich\f37 People Before Profit\'94\loch\f37   
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A3.  The Socialist Alliance}{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 aims to win support in the working class movemen\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
t for a democratically organised republican socialist party, along the lines of the Scottish Socialist Party.  
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A4.   Socialism  - The Socialist Alliance}{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
is opposed to capitalism and imperialism. Socialism abolishes capitalism and economic exploitation and\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
 hence the necessity for social oppression. Socialism re-organises society on the basis of common social ownership and democratic control. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A5.   Republicanism - The Socialist Alliance}{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
identifies the working class as the only genuinely democratic class in \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
society. In the United Kingdom the constitutional monarchist state is the main barrier to democracy and socialism. The struggle for democracy is the only road to working class self-emancipation. Our immediate political objective is to replace the constitu
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 t\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 ional monarchy with a democratic secular republic which includes the right of Ireland, Scotland and Wales to self determination.   
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A6.   Internationalism - The Socialist Alliance}{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
is internationalist in its outlook. International capitalism is creating an \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
expanding working class across the world. Building international working class solidarity and co-operation is central to the struggle for democracy and socialism. We oppose all capitalist policies which divide the working class along national lines includ
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 i\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 ng imperialist wars and foreign occupations.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A7.  Environment \hich\f37 \endash \loch\f37 
 The Alliance recognises the vulnerability of the ecosystem which sustains human life and the need to respect and sustain our environment rather than plunder and disrupt it. It recognises the i\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
mportance of our local and global environment  for the health, safety, welfare and continued existence of the world\hich\f37 \rquote \loch\f37 
s people. In particular it regards global warming as a major threat to human civilisation and existence. It sees capitalism \hich\f37 \endash \loch\f37  with its ruth\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 l\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
ess pursuit of short term profit and its need for unending growth - as the major cause of environmental damage. It believes that only in a socialist society would it be possible for human activity to be environmentally sustainable.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 Socialist environmentali\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
sm has the potential to create an alliance of socialists, radical greens, trade unionists, and local activists who collectively identify and campaign on those issues which cause the greatest day-to-day suffering of the working class e.g. in housing, educa
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 t\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
ion, health, public transport, waste.  Through inclusive grass-roots campaigns that have a democratic structure and transparent organisation the SA can help generate political action at both national and local level that actually politicises those taking 
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 p\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 art.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A8. The Socialist Alliance}{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
is a campaigning organisation, seeking to win support for our ideas and policies in the socialist movement, the trade union movement and working class communities. We are prepared to work in and campaign within a broad range\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
 of socialist and working class organisations. We are prepared to stand in elections where circumstances indicate we have the support and means to do so.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f37\fs20\insrsid16212174 
A9 A key element of an independent working class struggle against capitalism is the fight to make the 
trade unions assert themselves against the government. This must include taking up the fight to repeal the anti-union legislation, the fight for accountable union reps in the workplace, and a fight to disaffiliate unions from the Labour Party.   The SA wi
ll establish clear democratic working class principles by which to assess any broader coalitions we may consider supporting. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
A10  Anti-fascism - The Socialist Alliance recognises fascism as a clear and present danger to the working class here and across Eu\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
rope with the rise of fascist and explicitly racist parties and will campaign for an anti-fascist united front to defend communities under attack and defeat fascism.}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37   
\par }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A11  Fighting Specific Oppressions - The Socialist Alliance abhors the specific oppressi\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
ons that people suffer due to their ethnic background, nationality, gender, sexuality, age, disabilities and health.  
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs20\insrsid16212174 
These oppressions effect people in all classes, but particularly threaten the working class by potentially dividing sections of the class
 against each other.  These oppressions can only be finally banished when class society itself is swept away but must be challenged in the hear and now.}{\f37\fs20\insrsid16212174  
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
A12.  The Socialist Alliance is not a party. We are not set up in opposition to other working class gr\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
oups and parties. We are an alliance. This means we have independent members and members from a range of socialist parties and organisations. We are not seeking to persuade members of other socialist organisations to leave their organisations. We expect c
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 o\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 mrades to act within their own organisations to promote our common aims and consider membership/affiliation to the SA. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A13.  The Socialist Alliance}{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
is a democratic organisation. We believe in openness of ideas and freedom of expression and believe this is\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  the best method of building an effective campaigning organisation for a new workers party.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs22\insrsid16212174 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
B: Membership
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0   
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
B1: Membership is open to all who broadly agree with the aims of the SA and accept its aims and programme as the basis for common activity.}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid16212174 
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 Member\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
s are expected to support an anti-sectarian, co-operative and positive way of working and help to ensure that any critical debates are conducted in a positive manner and without personal attacks.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 B2:  A member must pay the appropriate subscription to the S\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 ocialist Alliance. Local branches may seek additional donations from their own members as decided locally.

\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 B3.  Members of other parties, organisations and groups who join the Socialist Alliance are expected to be able to keep their identity as members of \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
these organisations whilst participating fully within the development of the Socialist Alliance.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 \hich\f37 B4: Individual members are thus welcome from other groups and organisations and membership of these \'93\loch\f37 must be declared on application for membership, and change\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
s declared on renewal of membership\'94
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  B5: The annual fee for individual membership will be determined by the Annual Conference of the Socialist Alliance. Where ever possible members will be allocated to the nearest local branch. Where this is not practical
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  members will remain national members. Membership is on the basis of membership of only one local Socialist Alliance at any time. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 B6:  Socialist, environmentalist, working class and other appropriate organisations can support the Socialist Alliance by pay\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
ing an affiliation fee. Affiliates are encouraged to publicise SA activities and consult and co-operate with the SA wherever possible.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 B7:  Membership of the Alliance carries an obligation not to obstruct campaigns decided on by the Alliance. We recognise,\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
 however, the right of minorities publicly to promote their views. In the event that an organised minority intends to take any action conflicting with a majority decision nationally or locally, that minority should inform the Alliance at the relevant leve
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 l\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  of its intention to do so.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs22\insrsid16212174 \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 
C: National policy-making and structures
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid16212174 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C1: National policy will be decided democratically by an Annual Conference, open to all members. A Conference Arrangements Committee will be elected to ensure the conference is organise
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 d and conducted democratically.   
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C2: There will be political meetings and conferences of the Socialist Alliance in addition to the Annual Conference, open to all members to attend, at the discretion of the National Executive or on the basis of a request 
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 from 25 percent of the membership. Such conferences may alter the policy and constitution of the Socialist Alliance.
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 National Executive 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C3: The implementation of national policy and national activities between Conferences, and the organisation of the Annu\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
al and any other Conferences, will be carried out by the National Executive, which will be elected at the Annual Conference. 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 The Council of Socialist Organisations 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C4:  All affiliated socialist and working class organisations and affiliated local Sociali\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
st Alliances have the right to two delegates to the Council of Socialist Organisations. The Council should meet regularly as it determines and no less than once every three months. The Council will comprise of no more than three National Officers meeting 
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 w\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
ith delegates from affiliates. The SA officers, in consultation with affiliates, will draw up a provisional agenda and notice of the meeting. All affiliates have a right to place any matter on the agenda for discussion and the order of agenda will be deci
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 d\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 ed by members of the council at the start of the meeting.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C5: The purpose of the Council is to assist in securing the maximum unity in action and closest co-operation between the SA and its affiliates. The Council seeks to encourage constructive dialogue a
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 nd non-sectarian but critical exchange of views amongst affiliates themselves. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C6: The Council can take majority decisions, but these are not binding either on affiliated organisations or on the Socialist Alliance. These decisions are to be reported back \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
to delegating bodies as recommendations. These may then become the basis for joint action involving the SA and some or all of its affiliates.       
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 Election and powers of the National Executive 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C7: }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 A twelve person National Executive will be elected at co\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
nference by the method of single ballot STV.  The National Executive will decide what specific officer posts there should be and will elect these positions from among their number. Conference Arrangements Committee will be responsible for producing a deta
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 i\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 led protocol of how the ballot will be run and carrying it out at conference.}{\fs20\insrsid16212174 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C8: The National Executive will meet bi-monthly. Individual non-executive members may attend such meetings by invitation of the National Executive. The National Executive will en\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
deavour to decide issues wherever possible by agreement but where no agreement is possible decisions will be made by majority vote.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C9: The National Executive will be responsible for the running of the national organisation, for finance, membership, arrang\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
ements of national meetings, communications with local groups and individuals, national bulletin or paper production and distribution, liaison with other groups and organisations, arrangements for seeking and enabling electoral unity; and any other matter
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 s\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  delegated to them by the Annual Conference.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C10: The National Executive will have the power to disaffiliate local Socialist Alliances and remove individual membership or refuse to ratify candidate selection if it is concluded that the basic statement of a
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 ims has been breached by a Socialist Alliance, by an individual member or by a candidate.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C11: Decisions of the National Executive relating to affiliation of local organisations or ratification of candidates can be appealed to the Annual Conference. The An\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
nual Conference has the final authority to decide all issues relating to the Socialist Alliance.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C12: The Socialist Alliance may be dissolved by a resolution of a Special Meeting, called for this purpose by the National Executive  or by request of 25 perce\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
nt of the membership, provided such resolution receives a two thirds majority of those present and voting. At least two weeks written notice of any such Special Meeting, including any motion to dissolve, must be given to all members and affiliates; but ac
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 c\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
idental error or omission in giving such notice to a small number of members or affiliates shall not invalidate the meeting.. Any assets of the Socialist Alliance shall be distributed to any organisation or organisations having aims consistent with those 
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 o\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 f the Socialist Alliance, as agreed at such a Special Meeting.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\cf1\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
C13: The constitution of the Socialist Alliance may be changed by resolution of the Annual Conference or by resolution of a Special Meeting open to all members called by the National Executive,\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
 or by request of 25 percent of the membership of the Socialist Alliance, provided such resolution receives a simple majority. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\b\insrsid16212174 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 Appeals Committee
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  
\par }{\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 C17: Conference will elect an Appeals Committee with a membership of three, who must not be members of the \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
executive. The committee shall elect a convenor from amongst its membership, who will have the right to attend the executive on a non-voting basis.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 The functions of the committee shall be as follows:
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 i). Membership - Where a local alliance or national body\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
 wishes to reject an application for membership, or expel an existing member, the request must be made in writing to the appeals committee, who will have the final decision.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 ii). Disputes - Any disputes about the balance of rights and duties between indivi\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
dual members or members platforms, or complaints about the conduct of individuals or members platforms shall be referred to the appeals committee. The decision of the committee will be binding on all parties concerned.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 iii). Elections - Where disputes aris\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
e locally around endorsement of candidates, which seats are to be contested etc, the executive may ask the appeals committee to investigate the situation and make recommendations for a course of action. The final decision on these matters will remain with
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 the executive.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 The expectation is that all disputes should be resolved locally where possible, in line with the SA\hich\f37 \rquote \loch\f37 
s principles of non-sectarian, positive co-operation. Disputes should only be referred to the appeals committee where local attempts to find \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
a resolution have failed. All decisions of the appeals committee can be overturned at a conference by a simple majority vote.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs22\insrsid16212174 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 D: Local Socialist Alliances
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0   
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
D1: Local and regional organisation will have to be flexible to take account of the fact we are a\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
 small but growing organisation and the fact that effective campaigning and fighting different kinds of elections will require different organisational forms. These local and regional Alliances must however demonstrate that they comply with certain common
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 criteria in order to be viable. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 (a) the Alliance has an organising group (or steering committee) with specific named responsibilities (including treasurer and membership secretary).
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 (b) the Alliance has a regular meeting, publicly advertised, open to all \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 members (and potential new members).
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 (c) The Alliance maintains an up-to-date membership list and provides membership details to the national organisation as required.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 D2: The boundaries of a Socialist Alliance should in the first instance be a matter for \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
members to determine locally. If there is dispute over boundaries, this may be referred to the National Executive with the right of appeal to Conference. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 D3: Local Socialist Alliances should operate on similar principles to the National Executive, trying \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 to reach agreement where they can but deciding issues by majority vote where they cannot.

\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 D5: Recognition of local and regional Socialist Alliances as affiliates of the Socialist Alliance nationally will be determined by the National Executive, subject to \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
review by the National Conference.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs22\insrsid16212174 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af13\loch\f0 E: Selection of candidates
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
E1: The local Socialist Alliance will have the responsibility for all elections contested by the Socialist Alliance within its area  and for all arrangements regarding local candidate, agent, t\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
reasurer, in line with Socialist Alliance requirements nationally.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 E2: Socialist Alliance candidates must be selected at properly notified meetings open to all Socialist Alliance members of the appropriate local organisation on the basis of one member, one\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
 vote. If a Socialist Alliance does not exist in an area where someone wishes to stand as a Socialist Alliance candidate, a local Socialist Alliance can be established by the National Executive to carry out a selection process. The national Nominating Off
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 i\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
cer should monitor the selection of candidates and report regularly to the National Executive. In case of dispute or objection to the selection of any Socialist Alliance candidate, confirmation of nomination must be sought from the National Executive

\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 E3: T\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
he  local Socialist Alliance or  the National Executive, in consultation with one another, may nominate the Socialist Alliance candidate to stand in a particular election in exceptional circumstances. The final decision will lie with the Nominating Office
\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 r\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37  who is accountable to the National Executive.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 E4: Socialist Alliance candidates will be expected to support the agreed policies of the Socialist Alliance and to promote the Socialist Alliance on public platforms. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 E5: Should Socialist Alliance candidates \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 be elected to office, they will be expected to support Socialist Alliance national policy.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af13\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\f37\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af13\loch\f37 
Charter of members\hich\f37 \rquote \loch\f37  rights
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2052\loch\af37\hich\af37\dbch\af37\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2052 {\fs20\insrsid16212174 \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 
All members have the following rights:
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 1. The right to take part in the selection of candidates for elections at all levels
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 2. The right t\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 o put themselves forward as candidates for selection
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 3. The right to take part in the formation of policy at all levels
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 4. The right to hold all officers or representatives to account through democratic mechanisms
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 5. The right to freedom of opinion and exp\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 ression
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 6. The right to write for, sell or distribute publications
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 7. The right to information about all SA activities and decisions
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 8. The right to establish short-term or long-term political platforms on whatever political basis members see fit.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 The requ\hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 irements of membership are:
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 1. Support for Socialist Alliance candidates and campaigns in elections
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 2. Behaving in a democratic and co-operative manner
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 3. No racist, sexist, homophobic or discriminatory behaviour
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af37\loch\f37 4. Payment of the relevant membership fee}{\insrsid16212174 
\par 
\par }}